Provisioning api design (#267)
kyma-incubator/compass: docs/architecture/provisioning-api.md

# Introduction

> The goal of this document is to describe requirements for Provisioner component and propose an API. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The goal of this document is to describe the requirements for the Provisioner component and propose an API. 
```

## Requirements

## Non-Functional

The basic requirements are defined as follows:

- Provisioner API is based on GraphQL. 
- Provisioner API is asynchronous.

## Functional

### Runtime management

The following operations must be supported:

- Provisioning
- Upgrade

>   - Kubernetes version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Kubernetes version
```

  - Kyma version.
- Deprovisioning

### Runtime Agent connection management

> Resetting connection between Runtime and Management Plane Services must be supported. The goal of this functionality is to force Compass Runtime Agent installed on the Runtime to establish a new connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The API must support resetting the connection between Runtime and Management Plane Services. The goal of this functionality is to force Compass Runtime Agent installed on the Runtime to establish new connection.
```
I'd stick with one:
 either `resetting connection` and `establish new connection`
or 
`resetting the connection` and `to establish a new connection`.

### Status information retrieval

> The following operations must be supported:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These operations must be supported:
```

> - Getting status of an asynchronous operations (e.g. Runtime provisioning)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Getting the status of an asynchronous operation (e.g. Runtime provisioning)
```
`operations` or `an operation`

> - Getting current status of a Runtime 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Getting the current Runtime status

# API proposal

## General 

> The basic assumptions for API design are as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These are the basic assumptions for the API design:
```

> - Cluster provisioning and Kyma installation is considered atomic operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Cluster provisioning and Kyma installation is considered an atomic operation.
```

- Provisioning, deprovisioning, upgrade and Compass Runtime Agent reconnecting is uniquely identified by OperationID.
- Runtime is uniquely identified by RuntimeID.

> - Before runtime is provisioned it must be registered in Director API. RuntimeID returned from Director should be used in Provisioner API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Before you provision the Runtime, register it in Director API. Use RuntimeID returned from Director in Provisioner API.
```
Avoid using passive voice as it's more difficult to read for non-native speakers. 
You capitalize `Runtime` everywhere else - should it be capitalized here as well?

- Only one asynchronous operation can be in progress on a given Runtime.  
- It must be possible to install minimal Kyma  (Kyma Lite) and specify additional modules.
- Two types of status information are available:

>   - Status of asynchronous operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - The status of an asynchronous operation
```

>   - Status of Runtime comprised of:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Runtime status comprised of:
```

>     - Status of the last operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - The status of the last operation
```

>     - Status of Compass Runtime Agent Connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Compass Runtime Agent Connection status
```

## Runtime managament

> ### Provision Runtime

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Provision Runtime Mutation
```

And then remove the first sentence below.

> Provisioning is implemented by ***provisionRuntime*** mutation. The object that must be passed to the mutation contains the following fields:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
***provisionRuntime*** mutation provisions Runtimes. The object passed to the mutation contains these fields:
```

- Kyma installation settings
  - Release version

>   - List of modules to be installed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - List of modules to install
```

- Kubernetes cluster settings

>   - name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Name
```

>   - size

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Size
```

>   - memory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Memory
```

>   - region and zone

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Region and zone
```

>   - credentials

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Credentials
```

>   -  version

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Version
```

Also, as per [guidelines](https://github.com/kyma-project/community/blob/master/guidelines/content-guidelines/04-formatting.md):
> - Capitalize the first letter of each bullet point consistently. Capitalize the first letter unless the list items are always lowercased, as with parameters names.
>

  - Infrastructure provider (e.g. GKE, AKS)

Some Kubernetes cluster settings (such as size, memory, and version) are optional and default values are used.

The mutation returns OperationID allowing to retrieve the operation status.

> ### Upgrade Runtime

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Upgrade Runtime Mutation
```
And remove the first sentence below.

> Upgrade is implemented by ***upgradeRuntime*** mutation. The object that must be passed to the mutation contains the following fields:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
***upgradeRuntime*** mutation upgrades Runtimes. The object passed to the mutation contains these fields:
```

- Kyma installation settings
  - Release version
  - List of modules to be installed
- Kubernetes cluster settings

>   -  version

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  -  Version
```

The mutation returns OperationID allowing to retrieve the operation status.

> ### Deprovision Runtime

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Deprovision Runtime Mutation
```

And remove the first sentence below.

> Deprovisioning is implemented by ***deprovisionRuntime*** mutation. The RuntimeID must be passed as argument. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
***deprovisionRuntime*** mutation deprovisions Runtimes. Pass the RuntimeID as argument. 
```

The mutation returns OperationID allowing to retrieve the operation status.

> ### Reconnecting Compass Runtime Agent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Reconnecting Compass Runtime Agent Mutation
```

And remove the first sentence below.

> Reconnection Compass runtime Agent is implemented by ***reconnectRuntimeAgent*** mutation. The RuntimeID must be passed as argument. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
***reconnectRuntimeAgent*** mutation reconnects Compass Runtime Agent. Pass the RuntimeID as argument. 
```

The mutation returns OperationID allowing to retrieve the operation status.

## Retrieving operation status

> ### Operation status

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Operation status query
```
And remove the first sentence below.

> Getting operation status is implemented by ***runtimeOperationStatus*** query. The query takes Operation ID as parameter and returns object containing the following information:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
***runtimeOperationStatus*** query gets the Runtime operation status. The query takes Operation ID as parameter and returns object containing this information:
```

> - Operation type (e.g. Provisioning).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Operation type (e.g. Provisioning)
```

> - Operation status (e.g. InProgress).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Operation status (e.g. InProgress)
```

> - Message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Message
```

> - Error messages list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Error messages list
```

> ### Current status of a Runtime

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Current Runtime status retrieval
```

and remove the first sentence below..?

> Getting current status of a Runtime is implemented by ***runtimeOperationStatus*** query. The query takes Runtime ID as a parameter and returns object containing the following information:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
***runtimeOperationStatus*** query gets the current status of a Runtime. The query takes Runtime ID as a parameter and returns an object containing this information:
```

> - Last operation status.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Last operation status
```

> - Runtime connection configuration (kubeconfig).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Runtime connection configuration (kubeconfig)
```

- Runtime Agent Connection status

>   - Status (connected, disconnected).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Status (connected, disconnected)
```

>   - Errors list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Errors list
```
